Documentation/IDE.md, before:

# Plang IDE Guide

This guide will walk you through the process of setting up your development environment for the Plang programming language. We will be using Visual Studio Code (VS Code) as our Integrated Development Environment (IDE) and install a specific Plang extension for it.

## Prerequisites

Before we begin, make sure you have Visual Studio Code installed on your machine. If you don't have it installed, you can download it from the official website:

- [Download & Install Visual Studio Code](https://code.visualstudio.com/)

VS Code is available for Windows, Linux, and MacOS.

## Installing the Plang Extension for VS Code

The Plang extension for VS Code allows you to write and debug your Plang code efficiently. 

Follow the steps below to install it:

1. Open Visual Studio Code.
2. Click on the Extensions view icon on the Sidebar or press `Ctrl+Shift+X` to open the Extensions view.
3. In the Extensions view, enter `plang` in the search form and press `Enter`.
4. Locate the `plan-extension` by PlangHQ in the search results and click on the Install button.

Alternatively, you can visit the Plang extension page directly on the Visual Studio Marketplace:

- [Plang Extension for VS Code](https://marketplace.visualstudio.com/items?itemName=PlangHQ.plang-extension)

Once the extension is installed, you will be able to start writing and debugging your Plang code in VS Code.

Here is a screenshot of what the Plang extension looks like:

![Plang Extension Screenshot](https://raw.githubusercontent.com/PLangHQ/plang.vscodeextension/main/screenshot.jpg)

Now, you are all [set to start coding in Plang!](./GetStarted.md) Happy coding!

Commit message:

Fix setting debugger add download (#27)
* Add download file to http module and tests

* Fix debugger

* Fix select with like % in them

Documentation/IDE.md, after:

# Plang IDE Guide

This guide will walk you through the process of setting up your development environment for the Plang programming language. We will be using Visual Studio Code (VS Code) as our Integrated Development Environment (IDE) and install a specific Plang extension for it.

## Prerequisites

Before we begin, make sure you have Visual Studio Code installed on your machine. If you don't have it installed, you can download it from the official website:

- [Download & Install Visual Studio Code](https://code.visualstudio.com/)

VS Code is available for Windows, Linux, and MacOS.

## Installing the Plang Extension for VS Code

The Plang extension for VS Code allows you to write and debug your Plang code efficiently. 

Follow the steps below to install it:

1. Open Visual Studio Code.
2. Click on the Extensions view icon on the Sidebar or press `Ctrl+Shift+X` to open the Extensions view.
3. In the Extensions view, enter `plang` in the search form and press `Enter`.
4. Locate the `plan-extension` by PlangHQ in the search results and click on the Install button.

Alternatively, you can visit the Plang extension page directly on the Visual Studio Marketplace:

- [Plang Extension for VS Code](https://marketplace.visualstudio.com/items?itemName=PlangHQ.plang-extension)

Once the extension is installed, you will be able to start writing and debugging your Plang code in VS Code.

Here is a screenshot of what the Plang extension looks like:

# Important
> [!IMPORTANT] You might need to restart VS Code after setting the PATH. If you run your code and nothing happens, restart VS Code

## Next
Now, you are all [set to start coding in Plang!](./GetStarted.md) Happy coding!


![Plang Extension Screenshot](https://raw.githubusercontent.com/PLangHQ/plang.vscodeextension/main/screenshot.jpg)
