Documentation/PlangOrOpenAI.md, before:

# Plang Guide

We go over the default built in PLang LLM service or if you like to use OpenAI directly.

## Using Plang Service

Plang service allows you to build your code. By using the Plang service, you are supporting the project. The cost of using the Plang service is exactly twice the cost of using the OpenAI key.

Here's how you can use the Plang service:

1. Start building your code using Plang.
2. On your first build, if you don't have any voucher on the Plang service, you will be provided with a payment link.
3. Click on the payment link, choose the amount you want to buy for (we recommend starting small, like $5), fill in your credit card information, and submit.
4. Build again with Plang, and you should be good to go.

## Using OpenAI

If you have an OpenAI API key, you can use GPT4 to build your code. Here's how you can do it:

1. First, you need to get an API key from [OpenAI](https://openai.com/).
2. Next, download the `OpenaAIService.dll` file from OpenAI service project from [here](https://github.com/PLangHQ/services/tree/main/OpenAiService).
3. Create a folder named `.services` in your project.
3. Create a folder named `OpenAIService` in the `.services` folder and put the `OpenaAIService.dll` into the `OpenAIService` folder
4. In your `Start.goal` or `Events.goal` file, type in the following at the top:

### Example

```plang
@llm=OpenAIService

Start
- [llm] system: Say hello
    write to %result%
- write out %result%
```

## When to use `Start.goal` or `Events.goal`
If you are using have `events` folder in Plang, then instead of putting it in `Start.goal`, it needs to go into your `Events.goal` file:

```plang
@llm=OpenAIService

Events
- before app start, call !DoStuff
```

This is because `Events.goal` file is built before the `Start.goal` file.

The strict format of `@llm=OpenAIService/` allows the builder to parse it and load it before the LLM services starts doing request.

## Which is better?

The Plang service uses GPT4 from OpenAI, so there is no difference in the results. We hope to provide you with a faster and much cheaper service in the future. 

By using our service, you are supporting the project, its development, and hopefully enabling us to create a cheaper and more efficient language learning model (LLM) to build your code.

Commit message:

add Performance doc and update about local LLM

Documentation/PlangOrOpenAI.md, after:

# Plang Guide

We go over the default built in PLang LLM service or if you like to use OpenAI directly.

## Using Plang Service

Plang service allows you to build your code. By using the Plang service, you are supporting the project. The cost of using the Plang service is exactly twice the cost of using the OpenAI key.

Here's how you can use the Plang service:

1. Start building your code using Plang.
2. On your first build, if you don't have any voucher on the Plang service, you will be provided with a payment link.
3. Click on the payment link, choose the amount you want to buy for (we recommend starting small, like $5), fill in your credit card information, and submit.
4. Build again with Plang, and you should be good to go.

## Using OpenAI

If you have an OpenAI API key, you can use GPT4 to build your code. Here's how you can do it:

1. First, you need to get an API key from [OpenAI](https://openai.com/).
2. Next, download the `OpenaAIService.dll` file from OpenAI service project from [here](https://github.com/PLangHQ/services/tree/main/OpenAiService).
3. Create a folder named `.services` in your project.
3. Create a folder named `OpenAIService` in the `.services` folder and put the `OpenaAIService.dll` into the `OpenAIService` folder
4. In your `Start.goal` or `Events.goal` file, type in the following at the top:

### Example

```plang
@llm=OpenAIService

Start
- [llm] system: Say hello
    write to %result%
- write out %result%
```

## When to use `Start.goal` or `Events.goal`
If you are using have `events` folder in Plang, then instead of putting it in `Start.goal`, it needs to go into your `Events.goal` file:

```plang
@llm=OpenAIService

Events
- before app start, call !DoStuff
```

This is because `Events.goal` file is built before the `Start.goal` file.

The strict format of `@llm=OpenAIService/` allows the builder to parse it and load it before the LLM services starts doing request.

## Local LLM

There is no local LLM available at the moment. 

We do hope to make this available in the future. Building the code is not to complex in general, so a small LLM could possible be a solution, allowing you to build your code on your machine for free.

## Which is better?

The Plang service uses GPT4 from OpenAI, so there is no difference in the results. We hope to provide you with a faster and much cheaper service in the future. 

By using our service, you are supporting the project, its development, and hopefully enabling us to create a cheaper and more efficient language learning model (LLM) to build your code.
