Documentation/Settings.md, before:

﻿# Plang Settings Documentation

## Introduction

In Plang, settings are a powerful feature that allows you to manage configuration values dynamically. This document will guide you through retrieving, adding, and customizing settings in Plang. Whether you're a beginner or an advanced user, this guide will help you understand how to effectively use settings in your Plang applications.

## Retrieving Settings

To retrieve a setting in Plang, you can use the syntax `%Settings.Name_of_Key%`. For example, to access an API key stored in settings, you would use `%Settings.API_KEY%`. If the setting is not found or is empty, Plang will prompt the user to provide the value.

### Example

```plang
APIRequest
- get http://some-api.com
    Bearer: %Settings.SomeAPIKey%
```

In this example, Plang will attempt to retrieve the `SomeAPIKey` from the settings. If the key is not found, the user will be prompted to enter it.

## Adding New Settings Keys

When you reference a setting like `%Settings.MyKey%` in your Plang code, Plang will search for this key in the settings database located at `.db/system.sqlite`. If the key exists, its value will be returned. If not, Plang will ask the user for the value using the `AskUserHandler`, which can be customized.

To change or remove a key, you will need to open the `.db/system.sqlite` database with a database tool.

## Advanced Customization

For advanced users, Plang allows customization of the settings service. This is useful if you want to use a custom storage medium for settings, such as environment files, cloud secret managers, or other secure storage solutions.

### Overwriting the Settings Service

You can overwrite the default settings service by injecting your own implementation. This is done by implementing the `ISettingsRepository` interface and injecting the DLL.

```plang
Start
- inject settings, 'mysettings', global
```

This command tells the Plang runtime to inject the service located in the `services/mysettings/*.dll` folder and sets it to be global to the application.

### Customizing how it asks user

If you want to customize how Plang asks the user for input, you can inject your own [`AskUserHandler` service](https://github.com/PLangHQ/plang/blob/main/Documentation/Services.md#askuser-service). This is useful if you want to handle user prompts differently.

Let’s say you have a Plang app running on a server. You can configure it to alert your admin if a setting is missing. The app could [send a message](https://github.com/PLangHQ/plang/blob/main/Documentation/blogs/Messaging.md) or email, then pause while waiting for a response. Once the admin provides the answer, the app updates the setting and resumes from where it left off. 

To do this, implement the `IAskUserHandler` interface and inject it:

```plang
Start
- inject askuser, 'myaskuser'
```

Plang will look for your service in the `services/myaskuser` folder. Your service should implement the following method:

```csharp
public async Task<bool> Handle(AskUserException ex)
```

After processing the logic, call:

```csharp
await ex.InvokeCallback(value);
```

Here, `value` is the expected response from the user. For example, when creating a database connection, the response can be in natural language, and the LLM will map it correctly to establish the connection.

You can check out the [AskUserMessage service](https://github.com/PLangHQ/services/tree/main/PLang.AskUserMessage) already in the git repo


## Further Reading

For more information on creating your own services, refer to the [Services Documentation](./Services.md).

This documentation provides a comprehensive overview of how to manage settings in Plang, from basic retrieval to advanced customization. By following these guidelines, you can effectively manage configuration values in your Plang applications.

Commit message:

Allow running goal from builder and runtime Cleanup and update nuget packages fix bulk db insert in DbModule fix handling of vars in memorystack small fixes validate hash of file in FileModule fix filter in FilterModule add option not to download file in HttpMoudle

Documentation/Settings.md, after:

﻿# Plang Settings Documentation

## Introduction

In Plang, settings are a powerful feature that allows you to manage configuration values dynamically. This document will guide you through retrieving, adding, and customizing settings in Plang. Whether you're a beginner or an advanced user, this guide will help you understand how to effectively use settings in your Plang applications.

## The goal for setting

The goal of Plang is to avoid the nightmare of complex configuration setups. Instead of getting lost in layers of settings, plang tries to streamline the process. For example, if your Plang app detects a missing setting, it can notify the admin, wait for input, and automatically apply the update—keeping things simple and running smoothly without endless configuration headaches.

## Retrieving Settings

To retrieve a setting in Plang, you can use the syntax `%Settings.Name_of_Key%`. For example, to access an API key stored in settings, you would use `%Settings.API_KEY%`. If the setting is not found or is empty, Plang will prompt the user to provide the value.

### Example

```plang
APIRequest
- get http://some-api.com
    Bearer: %Settings.Some_API_Key%
```

In this example, Plang will attempt to retrieve the `Some_API_Key` from the settings. If the key is not found, the user will be prompted to enter it.

## Adding New Settings Keys

When you reference a setting like `%Settings.MyKey%` in your Plang code, Plang will search for this key in the settings database located at `.db/system.sqlite`. If the key exists, its value will be returned. If not, Plang will ask the user for the value using the `AskUserHandler`, which can be customized.

To change or remove a key, you will need to open the `.db/system.sqlite` database with a database tool.

## Advanced Customization

For advanced users, Plang allows customization of the settings service. This is useful if you want to use a custom storage medium for settings, such as environment files, cloud secret managers, or other secure storage solutions.

### Overwriting the Settings Service

You can overwrite the default settings service by injecting your own implementation. This is done by implementing the `ISettingsRepository` interface and injecting the DLL.

```plang
Start
- inject settings, 'mysettings', global
```

This command tells the Plang runtime to inject the service located in the `services/mysettings/*.dll` folder and sets it to be global to the application.

### Customizing how it asks user

If you want to customize how Plang asks the user for input, you can inject your own [`AskUserHandler` service](https://github.com/PLangHQ/plang/blob/main/Documentation/Services.md#askuser-service). This is useful if you want to handle user prompts differently.

Let’s say you have a Plang app running on a server. You can configure it to alert your admin if a setting is missing. The app could [send a message](https://github.com/PLangHQ/plang/blob/main/Documentation/blogs/Messaging.md) or email, then pause while waiting for a response. Once the admin provides the answer, the app updates the setting and resumes from where it left off. 

To do this, implement the `IAskUserHandler` interface and inject it:

```plang
Start
- inject askuser, 'myaskuser'
```

Plang will look for your service in the `services/myaskuser` folder. Your service should implement the following method:

```csharp
public async Task<bool> Handle(AskUserException ex)
```

After processing the logic, call:

```csharp
await ex.InvokeCallback(value);
```

Here, `value` is the expected response from the user. For example, when creating a database connection, the response can be in natural language, and the LLM will map it correctly to establish the connection.

You can check out the [AskUserMessage service](https://github.com/PLangHQ/services/tree/main/PLang.AskUserMessage) already in the git repo


## Further Reading

For more information on creating your own services, refer to the [Services Documentation](./Services.md).

This documentation provides a comprehensive overview of how to manage settings in Plang, from basic retrieval to advanced customization. By following these guidelines, you can effectively manage configuration values in your Plang applications.
